# CMPE240-Final
The final exercise shall be performed using two Raspberry Pi’s. One Raspberry Pi will be running Debian/Raspbian and will host a webserver and a database that will be used to store data received over an internet protocol. The second Raspberry Pi will also be configured with Raspbian but will be running a program as a sensor node that will report back to the first Raspberry Pi any sensor data generated or received by an external device. For simplicity sake, the sensor data will be generated by a module that can be replaced by a hardware sensor and sensor driver at a later time if desired.
Group: Adam Audycki & Christian Greaves

SensorNode:
Install python 2.7 or later from official sources. This step will not be necessary on Rasbian Jessie.
From a commandline of choice, in the source directory that contains the Python files, enter
	 $python ./main.py http://<IP Address of Host machine>:<Port that Host listens on. Default 8081>
Example: $python ./main.py http://localhost:8081

OPTIONAL Examination of the C implementation:
To examine the remnant C code from the earlier iterations of the SensorNode application...

Using standard C libraries and GCC to compile.

**SET-UP of C implementation**

To disable Debug mode: in errorhandle.h, change the line
    #define debug 1
to 
    #define debug 0

To disable No-Network mode: in errorhandler.h, change the line
    #define nonetwork 1
to 
    #define nonetwork 0

Before attempting to compile, change directory to the source file containing the C code.
To complile on...

Cygwin:           $gcc -o SensorNode *.c

Bash on Windows 
Linux Subsystem:  $gcc -o SensorNode *.c -lm

Debian Bash:      $gcc -o SensorNode *.c -lm

NOTE: Will not compile on standard MinGW installations.

Compiler will spit out a standalone, portable executable (unless you compile on Cygwin, where it will only work from a Cygwin terminal).


**RUNNING SensorNode C implementation**

To run the SensorNode program, from a terminal, run 
    $./SensorNode <Your Target IP Address Here>
where <Your Target IP Address Here> is the IP address of the server you are generating information for.




Host:
Guides this information was taken from: 
http://www.instructables.com/id/Turning-your-Raspberry-Pi-into-a-personal-web-serv/
http://www.instructables.com/id/Host-your-website-on-Raspberry-pi/
https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-mysql-phpmyadmin/
http://thisdavej.com/beginners-guide-to-installing-node-js-on-a-raspberry-pi/

This guide assumes that the Raspberry Pi has Raspbian installed on it already.
The first step is to install the Node.js server. We do this by running "curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_7.x | sudo -E bash -"
This allows us to get the Node packages.
Then run "sudo apt install nodejs"

The next step is to install the apache server. We are doing this in order to use PHPMyAdmin in order to interact with the database. This is done by using the following command.
"sudo apt-get install apache2 php5 libapache2-mod-php5"
Then you need to allow for overrides by changing "AllowOverride None" to "AllowOverride ALL" in the file located at "sudo nano /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default".
Restart the server. "sudo service apache2 restart"
The files for your site are located under "/var/www". We need to change the permissions so run the following commands.
"cd /var/
sudo chmod 777 /www"

This will allow use to update the web files using WinSCP if we want.

Then we want to install the mysql server. "sudo apt-get install mysql-server mysql-client php5-mysql"
You will need to set a password for the MYSQL root user. Make sure to remember it.
In order to better monitor the DB we used PHPMyAdmin.
Run "sudo apt-get install phpmyadmin". Follow the intructions until it is done.
We will also need to setup Apache to include our PHPMyAdmin installation.
Enter "sudo nano /etc/apache2/apache2.conf"
Add "Include /etc/phpmyadmin/apache.conf" to the bottom.
Save and exit.
Restart Apache "sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart"

To find out where your website is use "ifconfig" and find the IP Address. That IP is what you will use to get to the site.
To get to the PHPMyAdmin go to "IP_ADDRESS/phpmyadmin"
